Global Infrastructure
Explain the following
Availability zone
Region
Edge location
AWS IAM
What is IAM? What are some of its features?
True or False? IAM configuration is defined globally and not per region
Given an example of IAM best practices?
What are Roles?
What are Policies?
A user is unable to access an s3 bucket. What might be the problem?
What should you use to:
Grant access between two services/resources?

Grant user access to resources/services?

What permissions does a new user have?
AWS Compute
What is EC2?
What is AMI?
What are the different source for AMIs?
What is instance type?
True or False? The following are instance types available for a user in AWS:
Compute optimizied
Network optimizied
Web optimized
What is EBS?
What EC2 pricing models are there?
What are Security Groups?
How to migrate an instance to another availability zone?
What can you attach to an EC2 instance in order to store data?
What EC2 RI types are there?
AWS Serverless Compute
Explain what is AWS Lambda
True or False? In AWS Lambda, you are charged as long as a function exists, regardless of whether it's running or not
Which of the following set of languages Lambda supports?
R, Swift, Rust, Kotlin

Python, Ruby, Go

Python, Ruby, PHP

AWS Containers
What is Amazon ECS?
What is Amazon ECR?
What is AWS Fargate?
AWS Storage
Explain what is AWS S3?
What is a bucket?
True or False? A bucket name must be globally unique
Explain folders and objects in regards to buckets
Explain the following:
Object Lifecycles

Object Sharing

Object Versioning

Explain Object Durability and Object Availability
What is a storage class? What storage classes are there?
A customer would like to move data which is rarely accessed from standard storage class to the most cheapest class there is. Which storage class should be used?
One Zone-IA
Glacier Deep Archive
Intelligent-Tiering
What Glacier retrieval options are available for the user?
True or False? Each AWS account can store up to 500 PetaByte of data. Any additional storage will cost double
Explain what is Storage Gateway
Explain the following Storage Gateway deployments types
File Gateway
Volume Gateway
Tape Gateway
What is the difference between stored volumes and cached volumes?
What is "Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration"?
Explain data consistency
Can you host dynamic websites on S3? What about static websites?
What security measures have you taken in context of S3?
What storage options are there for EC2 Instances?
What is Amazon EFS?
What is AWS Snowmobile?
AWS Disaster Recovery
In regards to disaster recovery, what is RTO and RPO?
What types of disaster recovery techniques AWS supports?
Which disaster recovery option has the highest downtime and which has the lowest?
AWS CloudFront
Explain what is CloudFront
Explain the following
Origin
Edge location
Distribution
What delivery methods available for the user with CDN?
True or False?. Objects are cached for the life of TTL
What is AWS Snowball?
AWS ELB
What is ELB (Elastic Load Balancing)?
What is auto scaling?
True or False? Auto Scaling is about adding resources (such as instances) and not about removing resource
What types of load balancers are supported in EC2 and what are they used for?
AWS Security
What is the shared responsibility model? What AWS is responsible for and what the user is responsible for based on the shared responsibility model?
True or False? Based on the shared responsibility model, Amazon is responsible for physical CPUs and security groups on instances
Explain "Shared Controls" in regards to the shared responsibility model
What is the AWS compliance program?
What is AWS Artifact?
What is AWS Inspector?
What is AWS Guarduty?
What is AWS Shield?
What is AWS WAF? Give an example of how it can used and describe what resources or services you can use it with
What AWS VPN is used for?
What is the difference between Site-to-Site VPN and Client VPN?
What is AWS CloudHSM?
True or False? AWS Inspector can perform both network and host assessments
What is AWS Key Management Service (KMS)?
What is AWS Acceptable Use Policy?
True or False? A user is not allowed to perform penetration testing on any of the AWS services
True or False? DDoS attack is an example of allowed penetration testing activity
True or False? AWS Access Key is a type of MFA device used for AWS resources protection
What is Amazon Cognito?
What is AWS ACM?
AWS Databases
What is AWS RDS?
What is AWS DynamoDB?
Explain "Point-in-Time Recovery" feature in DynamoDB
Explain "Global Tables" in DynamoDB
What is DynamoDB Accelerator?
What is AWS Redshift and how is it different than RDS?
What do you if you suspect AWS Redshift performs slowly?
What is AWS ElastiCache? For what cases is it used?
What is Amazon Aurora
What is Amazon DocumentDB?
What "AWS Database Migration Service" is used for?
What type of storage is used by Amazon RDS?
Explain Amazon RDS Read Replicas
AWS Networking
What is VPC?
True or False? VPC spans multiple regions
True or False? Subnets belong to the same VPC, can be in different availability zones
What is an Internet Gateway?
True or False? NACL allow or deny traffic on the subnet level
True or False? Multiple Internet Gateways can be attached to one VPC
What is an Elastic IP address?
True or False? Route Tables used to allow or deny traffic from the internet to AWS instances
Explain Security Groups and Network ACLs
What is AWS Direct Connect?
Identify the service or tool
What would you use for automating code/software deployments?
What would you use for easily creating similar AWS environments/resources for different customers?
Using which service, can you add user sign-up, sign-in and access control to mobile and web apps?
Which service would you use for building a website or web application?
Which tool would you use for choosing between Reserved instances or On-Demand instances?
What would you use to check how many unassociated Elastic IP address you have?
Which service allows you to transfer large amounts (Petabytes) of data in and out of the AWS cloud?
Which service provides a virtual network dedicated to your AWS account?
What you would use for having automated backups for an application that has MySQL database layer?
What would you use to migrate on-premise database to AWS?
What would you use to check why certain EC2 instances were terminated?
What would you use for SQL database?
What would you use for NoSQL database?
What would you use for adding image and video analysis to your application?
Which service would you use for debugging and improving performances issues with your applications?
Which service is used for sending notifications?
What would you use for running SQL queries interactively on S3?
Which service would you use for monitoring malicious activity and unauthorized behavior in regards to AWS accounts and workloads?
Which service would you use for centrally manage billing, control access, compliance, and security across multiple AWS accounts?
Which service would you use for web application protection?
You would like to monitor some of your resources in the different services. Which service would you use for that?
Which service would you use for performing security assessment?
Which service would you use for creating DNS record?
What would you use if you need a fully managed document database?
Which service would you use to add access control (or sign-up, sign-in forms) to your web/mobile apps?
Which service would you use if you need messaging queue?
Which service would you use if you need managed DDOS protection?
Which service would you use if you need store frequently used data for low latency access?
What would you use to transfer files over long distances between a client and an S3 bucket?
Which service would you use for distributing incoming requests across multiple?
AWS DNS
What is Route 53?
AWS Monitoring & Logging
What is AWS CloudWatch?
What is AWS CloudTrail?
What is Simply Notification Service?
Explain the following in regards to SNS:
Topics

Subscribers

Publishers

AWS Billing & Support
What is AWS Organizations?
What are Service Control Policies and to what service they belong?
Explain AWS pricing model
How one should estimate AWS costs when for example comparing to on-premise solutions?
What basic support in AWS includes?
How are EC2 instances billed?
What AWS Pricing Calculator is used for?
What is Amazon Connect?
What are "APN Consulting Partners"?
Which of the following are AWS accounts types (and are sorted by order)?
Basic, Developer, Business, Enterprise

Newbie, Intermediate, Pro, Enterprise

Developer, Basic, Business, Enterprise

Beginner, Pro, Intermediate Enterprise

True or False? Region is a factor when it comes to EC2 costs/pricing
What is "AWS Infrastructure Event Management"?
AWS Automation
What is AWS CodeDeploy?
Explain what is CloudFormation
AWS Misc
What is AWS CloudSearch?
What is AWS Lightsail?
What is AWS Rekognition?
What AWS Resource Groups used for?
What is AWS Global Accelerator?
What is AWS Config?
What is AWS X-Ray?
What is AWS OpsWorks?
What is AWS Athena?
What is Amazon Cloud Directory?
What is AWS Elastic Beanstalk?
What is AWS SWF?
What is AWS EMR?
What is AWS Quick Starts?
What is the Trusted Advisor?
What is AWS Service Catalog?
What is AWS CAF?
What is AWS Cloud9?
What is AWS Application Discovery Service?
What is the AWS well-architected framework and what pillars it's based on?
What AWS services are serverless (or have the option to be serverless)?
What is Simple Queue Service (SQS)?
Network
What is Ethernet?
What is TCP/IP?
What is a MAC address? What is it used for?
When is this MAC address used?: ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
What is an IP address?
Explain subnet mask and given an example
What is a private IP address? What do we need it for?
Explain the OSI model. What layers there are? What each layer is responsible for?
For each of the following determine to which OSI layer it belongs:
Error correction
Packets routing
Cables and electrical signals
MAC address
IP address
Terminate connections
3 way handshake
Details
What delivery schemes are you familiar with?
What is CSMA/CD? Is it used in modern ethernet networks?
Describe the following network devices and the difference between them:
router
switch
hub
How does a router works?
What is NAT?
What is a proxy? How does it works? What do we need it for?
What is TCP? How does it works? What is the 3 way handshake?
What is round-trip delay or round-trip time?
How does SSL handshake work?
What is the difference between TCP and UDP?
What TCP/IP protocols are you familiar with?
Explain "default gateway"
What is ARP? How does it works?
What is TTL?
What is DHCP? How does it works?
What is SSL tunneling? How does it works?
What is a socket? Where can you see the list of sockets in your system?
What is IPv6? Why should we consider using it if we have IPv4?
What is VLAN?
What is MTU?
What happens if you send a packet that is bigger than the MTU?
True or False?. Ping is using UDP because it doesn't care about reliable connection
What is SDN?
What is ICMP? What is it used for?
What is NAT? How does it works?
Which factors affect network performances
What the terms "Data Plane" and "Control Plane" refer?
Explain Spanning Tree Protocol (STP)
What is link aggregation? Why is it used?
What is Asymmetric Routing? How do deal with it?
What overlay (tunnel) protocols are you familiar with?
What is GRE? How does it works?
What is VXLAN? How does it works?
What is SNAT?
Explain OSPF
What is latency?
What is bandwidth?
What is throughput?
When performing a search query, what is more important, latency or throughput? And how to assure that what managing global infrastructure?
When uploading a video, what is more important, latency or throughput? And how to assure that?
What other considerations (except latency and throughput) are there when forwarding requests?
Explain Spine & Leaf
What is Network Congestion? What can cause it?
What can you tell me about UDP packet format? What about TCP packet format? How is it different?
What is the exponential backoff algorithm? Where is it used?
Using Hamming code, what would be the code word for the following data word 100111010001101?
Give examples of protocols found in the application layer
Give examples of protocols found in the network Layer
What is HSTS?
What is the difference if any between SSL and TLS?
