What is Jenkins? What have you used it for?
What are the advantages of Jenkins over its competitors? Can you compare it to one of the following systems?
Travis
Bamboo
Teamcity
CircleCI
What are the limitations or disadvantages of Jenkins?
Explain the following:
Job
Build
Plugin
Slave/Node/Worker
Executor
What plugins have you used in Jenkins?
Explain CI/CD and how have you implemented it in Jenkins
What type of jobs are there? Which types have you used?
How did you report build results to users? What ways are you familiar with for reporting results?
You need to run unit tests every time a change submitted to a given project. Describe in details how your pipeline would look like and what will be executed in each stage
How to secure Jenkins?
Describe how do you add new nodes (agents) to Jenkins
How to acquire multiple nodes for one specific build?
Whenever a build fails, you would like to notify the team owning the job regarding the failure and provide failure reason. How would you do that?
There are four teams in your organization. How to prioritize the builds of each team? So the jobs of team x will always run before team y for example
If you are managing a dozen of jobs, you can probably use the Jenkins UI. But how do you manage the creation and deletion of hundreds of jobs every week/month?
What are some of Jenkins limitations?
How would you implement an option of a starting a build from a certain stage and not from the beginning?
Jenkins Dev
Do you have experience with developing a Jenkins plugin? Can you describe this experience?
Have you written Jenkins scripts? If yes, what for and how they work?
Cloud
What is Cloud Computing? What is a Cloud Provider?
What are the advantages of cloud computing? Mention at least 3 advantages
What types of Cloud Computing services are there?
Explain each of the following and give an example:
IAAS
PAAS
SAAS
What types of clouds (or cloud deployments) are there?
Explain each of the following Cloud Computing Deployments:
Public
Private
Hybrid
What are the differences between Cloud Providers and On-Premise solution?
What is Serverless Computing?
AWS
Global Infrastructure
Explain the following
Availability zone
Region
Edge location
AWS IAM
What is IAM? What are some of its features?
True or False? IAM configuration is defined globally and not per region
Given an example of IAM best practices?
What are Roles?
What are Policies?
A user is unable to access an s3 bucket. What might be the problem?
What should you use to:
Grant access between two services/resources?

Grant user access to resources/services?

What permissions does a new user have?
AWS Compute
What is EC2?
What is AMI?
What are the different source for AMIs?
What is instance type?
True or False? The following are instance types available for a user in AWS:
Compute optimizied
Network optimizied
Web optimized
What is EBS?
What EC2 pricing models are there?
What are Security Groups?
How to migrate an instance to another availability zone?
What can you attach to an EC2 instance in order to store data?
What EC2 RI types are there?
AWS Serverless Compute
Explain what is AWS Lambda
True or False? In AWS Lambda, you are charged as long as a function exists, regardless of whether it's running or not
Which of the following set of languages Lambda supports?
R, Swift, Rust, Kotlin

Python, Ruby, Go

Python, Ruby, PHP

AWS Containers
What is Amazon ECS?
What is Amazon ECR?
What is AWS Fargate?
AWS Storage
Explain what is AWS S3?
What is a bucket?
True or False? A bucket name must be globally unique
Explain folders and objects in regards to buckets
Explain the following:
Object Lifecycles

Object Sharing

Object Versioning

Explain Object Durability and Object Availability
What is a storage class? What storage classes are there?
A customer would like to move data which is rarely accessed from standard storage class to the most cheapest class there is. Which storage class should be used?
One Zone-IA
Glacier Deep Archive
Intelligent-Tiering
What Glacier retrieval options are available for the user?
True or False? Each AWS account can store up to 500 PetaByte of data. Any additional storage will cost double
Explain what is Storage Gateway
Explain the following Storage Gateway deployments types
File Gateway
Volume Gateway
Tape Gateway
What is the difference between stored volumes and cached volumes?
What is "Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration"?
Explain data consistency
Can you host dynamic websites on S3? What about static websites?
What security measures have you taken in context of S3?
What storage options are there for EC2 Instances?
What is Amazon EFS?
What is AWS Snowmobile?
AWS Disaster Recovery
In regards to disaster recovery, what is RTO and RPO?
What types of disaster recovery techniques AWS supports?
Which disaster recovery option has the highest downtime and which has the lowest?
